<h1> The Renaissance Literature </h1>

<h2> Characteristics of the Renaissance </h2>
The Renaissance can be characterized by many traits, such as a "refinement" of art which was initiated by the Italian scholar Petrarch. Petrarch influenced the revitalization of the ancient Roman and Greek civilizations’ thought; this rejected the "corruption" and "barbarianism" during the dark ages.

<h3> Humanism </h3>
Previously, scholars and poets had been concerned with the Religious and celestial, this had all flipped around. Scholars during the Renaissance focused on the material world, the world of Man and nature.
Due to this, universities became more secular and did not focus as much on the divine. Art and philosophy also became more focused on being realistic and true to nature.

<h3> Commercial revolution </h3>
With the destruction of the Feudalistic market system a revolution began. Trading between nations bloomed and European countries developed trading centers to further their new economy. This change eventually led to the development of commercial capitalism in most parts of Western Societies.

<h2> Main Authors </h2>
The main authors in the Renaissance were people such as William Shakespeare, Christopher Marlowe, John Milton, John Donne, and Edmund Spenser. William Shakespeare created plays such as Hamlet, Macbeth, and Romeo and Juliet.

<h3> John Milton </h3>
John Milton wrote “Paradise Lost” during the Renaissance, this work is about the fall of the paradise which Adam and Eve lived in and how Satan interfered in the event. John Milton can be considered the one who linked the Renaissance and the Restoration eras.

<h3> John Donne </h3>
Then there’s John Donne who created “The Flea” which is a story about a man trying to make a woman have mutual feelings towards him as he has towards her, in this story the man uses a flea in a certain way to get to the woman’s heart.

<h3> Edmund Spenser </h3>
 The author Edmund Spenser created literature works such as “The Faerie Queene” and “Epithalamion”. “Epithalamion” means the celebration of a couple on their wedding and it comes from Greek. Edmund Spenser wrote “Epithalamion” because he was marrying his second wife.

<h3> Christopher Marlowe </h3>
Then there’s the pirate writer Christopher Marlowe, Marlowe was a spy who got stabbed in the eye and liked writing about the dark side of humanity. Marlowe wrote “Doctor Faustus” and “The Passionate Shepherd to His Love”. “Doctor Faustus” is about a Doctor who sells his soul to the devil to cure his boredom. The most recognizable writer of this period is of course William Shakespeare because many people know about him from his plays.

<h2> William Shakespeare (1564-1616) </h2>
We don’t know a lot about William Shakespeare’s life, there’s little to no information about what happened to him or his brothers and sisters in his young years. There is a lot of rumors about his life which can be true but nobody is 100% sure.
Shakespeare was born in 1564 in a little town called Stratford-Upon-Avon in England.  He was born into a Catholic family and quite a wealthy family where he had a lot of sisters and brothers. Shakespeare started to study early at Stratford-Upon-Avon grammar school. He was forced to quit school when he was 11 years old as a tradition from his father. His father wanted Shakespeare to study and become a teacher instead.  In 1582 when Shakespeare was 18 years old he married Anna Hathaway. Anna Hathaway was 8 years older and came from a wealthy farm family.
At the age of 25, he went to London to become an actor and author of his own plays. The name William Shakespeare quickly became famous in London. He became famous in London first as an actor but that transitioned to writing when he released his own plays. He became rich and famous enough to build his own theater in 1599, where he could perform his plays with his group of actors. After 20 long years in London, he returned to Stratford-Upon-Avon [MC3] and died in his home in 1616. The most famous plays he wrote whilst in London were:
Romeo and Julia (1597)
Hamlet (1603)
The Merchant of Venice (1600)
Why is he so important to the English culture?

During the days that Shakespeare wrote his plays, the English language was always changing and new words were being implemented, mostly as a result of war and exploration. During this change, Shakespeare left a permanent mark on the English language through his use of language in his own plays. Usually when he wrote the plays, Shakespeare needed his characters to fully express their feelings in different ways, so he created new ways of saying and writing things. He would usually do this by borrowing and using words from other languages. Shakespeare also started to invent new words on his own. If he didn’t like how things were said, he would just go on and say it how he wanted it to be said. And if Shakespeare found no way of saying something, he would just go on and simply invent a new word.
Not only did Shakespeare invent and change words on his own, but he also invented new phrases and how they were to be said. Many of these are still said and used today in our everyday life, and can still be heard all over the world.

Here are some examples of words and phrases Shakespeare invented:
·         ‘For god’s sake’ (Henry VIII)
·         ‘Heart of gold’ (Henry V)
·         ‘Knock knock! Who’s there? (Macbeth)
·         ‘Love is blind’ (Merchant of Venice)
·         ‘Break the ice’ (The Taming of the Shrew)

<h2> Hamlet </h2>
Hamlet is a play written by Shakespeare about Hamlet, a prince whose father, the King of Denmark is murdered by his brother Claudius. Claudius then marries the queen, Gertrude, and becomes king. Claudius sends away Hamlet, who is unaware that it’s his uncle Claudius who murdered his father. Hamlet meets a spirit who claims to be the late king’s ghost; the late king tells Hamlet how he died and demand vengeance. Hamlet goes back to kill Claudius but accidentally kills the counselor, Polonius, instead, thinking it was the Claudius. Polonius death led to his daughter Ophelia going mad and later drowns. Hamlet then agrees to a fencing match with Polonius son Laerts. Laerts poisoned his rapier in secret, while Claudius plans to murder Hamlet after the match by poisoning his drink but Gertrude takes the drink by accident, and with her last words she tells everyone that the king poisoned her. Hamlet then kills Claudius. After that Laerts and Hamlet dies by Laerts rapier.
It’s a storyline most people should be familiar with since it’s the plotline of The Lion King expect the Disney version is more child friendly.
I think that the main message of the story is that, you should be careful who you choose to trust and that even family can betray you.
Overall it’s an interesting story with a lot of family drama which makes it very enjoyable in my opinion. Shakespeare is probably the most famous writer of the time and I personally find his work easy to like.
